---
layout: post
title:  "Fall 2007"
date:   2007-12-21 11:15:00 -0600
categories: blog
tags: December 2007 KU SOECS Review
---
When I first started the network was a 100mb switched network. The infrastructure consisted of a single vlan that spanned two buildings and was assigned range of approximately 2000 IP addresses. About 90% of the addresses were either statically assigned in the OS or reserved through DHCP. DHCP services were provided by the main campus IT by a home-grown application that integrated with LDAP. DNS services were provided by SOECS staff and hosted multiple engineering domains as well as the SOECS Active Directory DNS infrastructure.

The active directory is composed of two sites, the vlan in Lawrence and the vlan at the Edward’s campus. Two domain controllers reside on the Lawrence campus and one at Edward’s. All domain controllers are Windows Server 2003 and the domain was at a Windows Server 2000 functional level. GPO’s were used primarily for delivering batch scripts for logon, as well as policy that configured the local firewall. No firewall protection was provided to the 500+ clients outside of the firewall product that was either integrated into the OS, or delivered through some third-party.

Applications were delivered to each computer manually. There was no software life-cycle to speak of and none of the applications were managed remotely. Computers were imaged using Ghost, the image was created from a master computer with all requisite software installed. None of the computer images were prepared with Sysprep, this resulted in nearly all the computers imaged in this fashion were unable to be managed remotely.
